---
layout: research
title: "HD Preprint Data for Hackathon"
category: Data
group: 10X Genomics
---
## Introduction about the data used in this hackathon

The Visium HD Spatial Gene Expression technology from 10X Genomics has completely transformed the way researchers explore gene expression within tissue architecture. It offers an incredibly detailed and precise method to analyze gene expression patterns. By using specialized probes to detect mRNA, this advanced platform provides researchers with a powerful tool to study gene expression across various types of samples with unparalleled precision.


The data for this hackathon comes from the 10X Genomics Visium HD datasets, which are available publicly. You can access these datasets on the [10X Genomics website](https://www.10xgenomics.com/products/visium-hd-spatial-gene-expression/dataset-human-crc). These datasets are connected to the preprint titled "Characterization of Immune Cell Populations in the Tumor Microenvironment of Colorectal Cancer Using High-Definition Spatial Profiling." They provide detailed insights into gene expression patterns, enabling researchers to explore how genes are expressed to their spatial organization and how this relates to disease mechanisms.


Visium HD technology is a cutting-edge system that produces two different types of data: high-resolution tissue images and comprehensive gene expression profiles. These tissue images provide detailed information about the spatial organization of cells and tissues, while the gene expression data offers a comprehensive map of the expression levels of thousands of genes across these spatial domains. By combining and analyzing these datasets, researchers can identify and characterize different cell types, reveal spatial expression patterns, and gain insights into the gene regulatory networks that underlie important biological processes.


In this Hackathon, we utilized Visium HD technology to delve into the intricacies of gene expression patterns within specific immune cell populations in patients with colorectal cancer. To achieve this, we made use of a variety of tools, such as Scanpy and other community-developed resources, for purposes including quality control, clustering, dimensionality reduction, differential expression analysis, and spatial statistics. 


These methodologies allowed us to thoroughly examine and analyze the gene expression data, gaining insights into the complex interplay of immune cells within the tumor microenvironment in colorectal cancer.

